Like the primary, it polls chunkservers at startup (and infre- contents of inactive chunks. This allows us to detect corrup-
quently thereafter) to locate chunk replicas and exchanges tion in chunks that are rarely read. Once the corruption is
frequent handshake messages with them to monitor their detected, the master can create a new uncorrupted replica
status. It depends on the primary master only for replica and delete the corrupted replica. This prevents an inactive
location updates resulting from the primary’s decisions to but corrupted chunk replica from fooling the master into
create and delete replicas. thinking that it has enough valid replicas of a chunk.
5.2 Data Integrity 5.3 Diagnostic Tools
Each chunkserver uses checksumming to detect corruption Extensive and detailed diagnostic logging has helped im-
of stored data. Given that a GFS cluster often has thousands measurably in problem isolation, debugging, and perfor-
of disks on hundreds of machines, it regularly experiences mance analysis, while incurring only a minimal cost. With-
disk failures that cause data corruption or loss on both the out logs, it is hard to understand transient, non-repeatable
read and write paths. (See Section 7 for one cause.) We interactions between machines. GFS servers generate di-
can recover from corruption using other chunk replicas, but agnostic logs that record many significant events (such as
it would be impractical to detect corruption by comparing chunkservers going up and down) and all RPC requests and
replicas across chunkservers. Moreover, divergent replicas replies. These diagnostic logs can be freely deleted without
may be legal: the semantics of GFS mutations, in particular affecting the correctness of the system. However, we try to
atomic record append as discussed earlier, does not guar- keep these logs around as far as space permits.
antee identical replicas. Therefore, each chunkserver must The RPC logs include the exact requests and responses
independently verify the integrity of its own copy by main- sent on the wire, except for the file data being read or writ-
taining checksums. ten. By matching requests with replies and collating RPC
A chunk is broken up into 64 KB blocks. Each has a corre- records on different machines, we can reconstruct the en-
sponding 32 bit checksum. Like other metadata, checksums tire interaction history to diagnose a problem. The logs also
are kept in memory and stored persistently with logging, serve as traces for load testing and performance analysis.
separate from user data. The performance impact of logging is minimal (and far
For reads, the chunkserver verifies the checksum of data outweighed by the benefits) because these logs are written
blocks that overlap the read range before returning any data sequentially and asynchronously. The most recent events
to the requester, whether a client or another chunkserver. are also kept in memory and available for continuous online
Therefore chunkservers will not propagate corruptions to monitoring.
other machines. If a block does not match the recorded 
checksum, the chunkserver returns an error to the requestor 
and reports the mismatch to the master. In response, the 
requestor will read from other replicas, while the master 
will clone the chunk from another replica. After a valid new 
replica is in place, the master instructs the chunkserver that 
reported the mismatch to delete its replica. 
Checksumming has little effect on read performance for 
several reasons. Since most of our reads span at least a 
few blocks, we need to read and checksum only a relatively 
small amount of extra data for verification. GFS client code 
further reduces this overhead by trying to align reads at 
checksum block boundaries. Moreover, checksum lookups 
and comparison on the chunkserver are done without any 
I/O, and checksum calculation can often be overlapped with 
I/Os. 
Checksum computation is heavily optimized for writes 
that append to the end of a chunk (as opposed to writes 
that overwrite existing data) because they are dominant in 
our workloads. We just incrementally update the check- 
sum for the last partial checksum block, and compute new 
checksums for any brand new checksum blocks filled by the 
append. Even if the last partial checksum block is already 
corrupted and we fail to detect it now, the new checksum 
value will not match the stored data, and the corruption will 
be detected as usual when the block is next read. 
In contrast, if a write overwrites an existing range of the 
chunk, we must read and verify the first and last blocks of 
the range being overwritten, then perform the write, and 
6. MEASUREMENTS
In this section we present a few micro-benchmarks to illus-
trate the bottlenecks inherent in the GFS architecture and
implementation, and also some numbers from real clusters
in use at Google.
6.1 Micro-benchmarks
We measured performance on a GFS cluster consisting
of one master, two master replicas, 16 chunkservers, and
16 clients. Note that this configuration was set up for ease
